1. Recently, large collections of healthcare data from different sources, modalities and morbidities has been made available, thanks to advances in acquisition technology and the pervasiveness of computer systems in hospitals and private clinics. This includes imaging data, electronic health records (EHR), genetic data, information from wearables. 

2.  Such data bring temendous opportunities in healthcare research. We can understand complex disease processes that are currently unknown. We can also evaluate the risk of subjects developing certain diseases and predict their future evolution. Finally, such data also enables precision medicine, which aims to deliver the right treatment to the right patient at the right time. 

3. To achieve all of aims, we need to develop models and tools that use existing data and that can be used for predictive analysis and discovery. To this end, many techniques have been developed in the past that can leverage such complex, high-dimensional data. These include support vector machines, bayesian models or unsupervised learning methods such as k-means clustering.

4. More recently, there has been an increase in the popularity of deep learning methods, spearheaded by state-of-the-art results in computer vision task such as object recognition, speech recognition tasks or natural language processing, or more recently games such as AlphaGo. This was possible due to large collections of data with known ground truth that are required to train these complex models, combined with recent increases in available processing power. 

5. Let's have a look at four main areas of where DL has been applied so far. In clinical imaging, Liu et al have used DL for early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease from brain MRI scans and managed to achieve an accuracy of XX, higher than previous methods. In a different medical domain, Prasoon et al. have used DL for automatic segmentatiuon of knee cartilage and prediction of osteoarthritis. Other domains include segmentation of MS lesions in multi-channel 3D MRIs, or diagnosis of breast nodules and lesions from ultrasound images. Importantly, in domains such as skin cancer, the performance of DL approaches is on par with that of medical professionals on classifying malignant versus benign carcinomas, as validated using ground-truth biopsy images. What a time to be alive!

6. In EHRs, DL approaches have also been very successful at varous tasks, such as predicting subjects' risk of developing various diseases. Several groups have built DL methods that have been used to predict development of congestive heart failure and COPD (click, Liu et al), diabetes and mental health patients (click, Pham et al), and many others (click, show list, Miotto et al, Liang et al,).  DL approaches have also been used to predict continuous time signals from EHRs, such as laboratory results from patiens in pediatric intensive care units (Lipton et al) or uric-acid signatures  of gout and acute leukemia (Lasko et al). Other domains of applications of DL include predicting suicide risk (Tran et al.), automatic de-identification within free-text patient summaries (Demoncourt et al) or prediction of unplanned readmissions after discharge. One of the key advantages of DL in the EHR context is that it can deal with the unstructured nature of the data, without the need to design tailored architectures.

7. In genomics, DL has also been used to capture the structure of high-dimensional and increasingly larger datasets such as DNA sequencing or RNA measurements. DL has been succesfully used to predict chromatin marks from DNA sequences (Zhou et al 2015), specificities of DNA- and RNA-binding proteins (Alipanahi et al 2015),  methylation states in single-cell sequencing studies (Angermueller et al), classification of cancer from gene expression profiles (Fakoor et al 2013) and prediction of protein backbones from protein sequences (Lyons et al 2014).

8. One other important source of medical data is represented by wearable devices. Nowadays, the distinction between consumer health wearables and medical devices is becoming more blurred. Examples include remote-controlled neurostimulators used to treat tremour in Parkinson's disease, or various other devices such as gloves. DL methods have been used so far to detect freezing of gait in PD patients (Hammerla et al 2016), estimation of Energy Expenditure using wearable sensors (Zhu et al 2015) or analysing portable neurophysiological EEG sygnals (Nurse et al 2016) or prediction of sleep quality from physical activity during day-time (Sathyanarayana et al 2016). However, deploying a DL method on such a wearable device is one of the main limitations of such approaches. While the data can be off-loaded on a cloud, the privacy cannot be ensured unless spcial encryption schemes are used, that allows performing arithmetic computation of such encrypted data.

== Challenges ==

9. We have seen plenty of applications of DL in various healthcare domains. There are however many challenges and opportunities lying ahead. In particlar, DL approaches require large amounts of data for training and for avoiding overfitting. This is one of the reasons why they have been so popular in domains where large amounts of data can be collected (click computer vision, speech, natural langauge processing). However, health care is a different domain: we only have 7.5 billion people on earth, with a large number of then not having access even to primary care.  

10. Another challenge is data quality. Unlike other domains where the data is clean, well structured (click game of Go), healthcare data is highly heterogenous, ambiguous, noisy and incomplete. Training a DL method is therefore challenging. 

12. Domain complexity: As opposed to some other domains, the problems in medicine are arguably more complicated. The diseases are highly heterogenous and poorly understood even by medical professionals.

13. Another key limitation of DL models is Interpretability. DL approaches are currently treated as black-boxes, where it is difficult to understand what they learned unless we apply some clever visualisation techniques (click vis. paper). Being able to show what the DL models learned from the complex structure is crucial for convincing clinicians or medical bodies to adopt them.

== Opportunities ==

14. There are several exciting opportunities in the future suggested by the authors. One of them is feature enrichment, more precisely combining several sources of data together for training a model. As far as authors were aware, there have not been any attempts to do so with DL. 

15 Another key opportunity is data privacy. One study on the vulnerability of Machine-learning as a service has shown that it is possible to leak sensitive data by making special queries to the model API (Tramer et al). This problem has been known by the community for a while, and reseachers have been trying to modify the models to ensure no leakage of sensitive data, a principle called differential pricacy. 

16 Incorporating expert knowledge is another opportunity in DL. This can be done by mining online medical encyclopedias or research papers to extract reliable content that can be included in DL architectures. 

17 Temporal modelling:  diseases are a process that changes over time. Many existing DL approaches cannot deal with the time factor in a natural way. Extending such models to incorporate temporality is an exciting opportunity ahead.

18 Interpretability: as I already mentioned, this is one of the main limitations of DL methods. However, I'd like to instead present it not as a challenge but rather as an opportunity and future research direction, as we can think of novel ways to visualise the deep and intermediate layers of the network and understand what it really learned.

